# ma1805-interactiveproject2

https://github.com/hayaturki05-pixel/ma1805-interactiveproject2.git

https://hayaturki05-pixel.github.io/ma1805-interactiveproject2/

This is a beat mixer. Whenever you click on a square on that 4x4 grid, its designated beat pops up simultaneously with a dancer. In a sense, this could be considered an interactive game that is rooted in my interests. I find great enjoyment in creating minute-long beats on the GarageBand app; through the sounds of drums, guitars, bass, piano, and others that I discover merge well through the creating process. This can be similarly applied with a 4x4 beat mixer or maker that incorporates these types of beats, as well. This is simpler to implement with just the basis of its clear 4x4 grid as a beginner coder. I am also a dancer. Specifically, a hip hop dancer. Having these two hobbies with practical and seamlessly integrated aspects raised the idea of combining them both into one output.  
 
I applied the appearance of a beat mixer and hip-hop dancer into, as hinted, a 4x4 grid visual with a dancer waving and grooving through the beat. This is to resemble the execution of the beat mixer and bring the similarity it has to the GarageBand app’s functionality with an accurate hip-hop dancer style being displayed in its arms' wave and legs' groovy motion, along with portraying as if it were me personally, the one dancing, since this is a depiction of myself. Each beat on the grid is a musical or instrumental element of the drums, bass, guitar, and piano to support the basic realistic beats that I view, listen to, and form into my own mix if it works well and smoothly into the overall sound.  
 
Through research, two types of sample code were used and modified to assist the development of the beat mixer’s grid basis, brought from a YouTube video, and the hip-hop dancers' dancing figure from a p5.js illustration reference. The adaptations that were made on the grid were the rest of the outputs presented: the colors in the columns, the sound placements on its individual squares, and the demonstration of where the dancing figure should be placed through the positions of their variable. The dancing figure’s sample remained identical, as I needed the precise animated movement it displayed to enhance the illustration of a hip-hop dancer just where it appeared, as mentioned, was adjusted and contributed. Moreover, my prior acquired knowledge in the mini and first interactive project, other p5.js references, and the open processing play and creative coding demonstrations on the DMCT Critical Making Wiki at the Inspirations: Creative coding on Notion guided me with these pieces. They produced clarity in my overall aesthetics and design (placement, ratios/sizes, and sparked concepts on features).  
 
For instance, The Useless Web (https://theuselessweb.com/) took me to a website, “Easy Memory Classic” (https://memory.toys/classic/easy/), which clarified the framework of the 4x4 and the feature on which you click on a square, and a dancer will pop up and then disappear when clicked again or on another of the 15 squares. It directed me as well to “Sliding Toys” (https://sliding.toys/mystic-square/8-puzzle/daily/), where it solidified the idea of the “hiphop” dancer moving freely and smoothly on the other squares and when concealed. The “Binary Music Player” (https://binarypiano.com/) that it next transitioned to brings the type of beats I should include for the drums, bass, and piano. Another instance that ignited my project was Perthirtysix: A Simple Sketch (https://perthirtysix.com/explore-creative-coding-with-30-p5js-sketches), particularly “Animation: The Colorful Grid” and "Interaction: Tapping a Circle" for the mentioned click pop-up and back of the beats and dancer.  
 
However, I encountered obstacles throughout the creation of this interactive "game" project. Before the realization that the beat mixer displays a 4x4 grid, I initially planned to manually program or code 16 squares across and below each other to form that grid appearance on a beat mixer. It was a struggle and became disorganized to vividly comprehend what I was writing. Once that insight came, I dropped that approach and moved on to a YouTube video that facilitated and eased the basis of that implementation. The other obstacle was the positioning component on the grid for the sounds and dancing figures factors. Given that it must be on each individual square with its own sound, it brought complexity; despite that, with logical thinking, p5.js references, and past projects, it made it simpler. As well, after a few were solved, the rest came more swimmingly. 
